So I wanna give people, first, a chance
to practice the props approach, and
then I'll reset the context in terms of
the lead-in into the next technique that I
think is really important when it comes
to the model of web development and
how we look at things.
We did get a great
question here in the chat.
And so, is this around the idea of
when in a lot of real world apps,
a lot of times you're getting large
sets of data from your API, right?
And so in the case of the question is,
user details.
And so if you're creating a component like
user card, how might you approach this?
So, again, just for the sake of not
just me talking, lets at least scaffold
this out a little bit, just so
there's something visual for us to have.
[SOUND] Let's go to the playground.
And then we'll go into our app.
Okay, there we go.
And so what I'm gonna do here, I'm gonna
create a file called user-card.vue.
And then let me just do this real
quick to set up the scaffold,
let's keep it easy user.
All right, so
we have a user card component.
And then I'll explain what
is the question here.
UserCard from components.user-card.vue,
UserCard, okay.
And then here we have
a UserCard like that.
So let me run, wait,
wrong thing to run dev in, okay.
All right, cool, this is too small.
So we're gonna bump that,
bump that, bump that, close that.
Okay, so the question here is around this
concept of what happens when
you get a large data object?
So inside of here, for instance, let's
just define it here real quick is that,
let's say we have a userData object
that we end up fetching from
the API that has something like name,
Ben, preferredFramework,
vue, for example, favoriteFood, sushi.
And then, let's just keep this, okay, so
let's say there's this level of object, or
actually let's go ahead and,
what's one more thing?
Let's just say, I don't know,
favoriteNumbers.
And this can be an array,
and that can be 8, what?
10, these are not actually my favorite
numbers, but for the sake of the exercise.
Okay, we have this complex thing.
And so the question here is,
if the UserCard, for example,
let's say on the user card we only
wanna display a couple of things.
We wanna display the name, we want to
display the, what else have we got?
[SOUND] We got the Name, and
let's just say Favorite Food.
Let's actually just say two things.
And so we refresh this, very good.
Okay, the question here is
around data architecture, and
how do we actually manage this?
Because there's one way we can do this,
right?
Let's talk about the first approach.
Probably the most straightforward
approach is to just say that, hey,
inside of this component I'm
gonna take this prop called user.
And it's gonna be a type of object,
and I'm going to require it, okay.
And then here is where I'll say user.name,
and user.favoriteFood,
cuz that corresponds with this
data that we're gonna go ahead and
pass here directly, user="userData", okay?
So if we take a look at how that looks
here, you'll see, did I not save?
There we go.
You see, user Ben appears and
sushi appears.
Okay, so it's working.
But the question here is,
as you'll notice,
is that we have passed in more
data than we actually need.
And so I think the question is kinda like,
what's the right way?
And like a lot of programming things,
there is no singular right way.
A lot of times what it ends up boiling
down to when it comes to managing this
stuff is the complexity around
maintenance of the components,
that's what I would basically say.
There's certainly sometimes concerns that,
the data you're passing in is so massive.
They're like, it doesn't make sense
to pass it as a single component.
But then I would argue at that point,
the bottleneck is not
the component architecture, but
maybe how data is being fetched and being
passed on at the higher level, right?
This is why I think stuff like
GraphQL has gotten really popular.
Because if the servers are just returning
giant blobs of data, that's expensive for
the user, right?
There's no amount of smart
things you can do as far as,
if you're just getting more data than you
need from your server, that's a problem
that has to be dealt at that end,
and not necessarily at this level.
And so in this case, however though,
let's say this was a lot bigger.
Let's just say this was a lot bigger,
right?
And you're like,
I really don't wanna pass that.
There honestly is nothing wrong just
being like, well, they will have a name,
it'll be String.
And this time we'll just say
it's a default of John Doe.
And then we'll also have a food
prop that is a type String, and
we'll default it to Cheeseburgers, right?
And so what's cool about this now with
the default, cuz this is, I think,
the first time I'm demoing this.
Is that if in the event we don't include
anything on the app side, you'll see.
What did I break?
>> You used user in your app.
>> I did, you're totally right,
good catch.
It's no longer an object,
it's just individual properties.
There we go.
User, favorite food, yes,
and this is just food.
Okay, you can see we have John Doe and
cheeseburgers.
And then, as a result,
what you get is now, okay, let's just say,
Ben's favorite food is cheeseburger.
Well, then in that case, userData.name
can be the only thing that we pass.
And you'll notice that Ben state, Ben is
good, default prop stays cheeseburger.
And then here you can also then say,
you know what?
Then also for favorite, so,
food can be userData.favoriteFood,
and then it still works.
And so, again,
it's one of those things, I think,
with experience you'll come to figure out,
one, when is it too many props?
Cuz I will say,
that is actually a legitimate problem.
If you have the point where you're
breaking down your object, then you have
ten lines of props, no one's gonna wanna
read that, no one wants to deal with that.
But, again, fill it out with your team.
Figure out, what is your limit?
For me once I start getting
passed three to five props,
I start wondering if I can maybe
manipulate the data just pass a concise
object that can then be spread
out inside of the component.
But, again, it's one of those things where
you'll have a style as far as how you
approach that, yeah?
>> Would that be where you might use
a computed property to pass as a prop?
>> I love it, okay.
So the question here is that then
with this same concept, right?
Could we then use a computed
property to pass it down, instead?
And I think that's a great example.
So once again, let's take this example.
If we wanted to say,
only pass down the food and the name,
we could say, call it refinedUserData.
And this refinedUserData
can basically just be,
returns an object where we do a [SOUND],
what is that?
Name and then just this.userData.name.
And then food, this.userData.favoriteFood.
And that way you actually get to
massage the data a little bit, anyways.
And then we can revert back to this
user now, which can just be passed.
And it will be passed refinedUserData.
And so it means we'll update this now to
be user, type: Object, required: true.
And this time, we can then say user.name,
actually I could have
just done that like that.
There we go.
What did I break?
Cannot read properties defined name,
computed return name.
Okay, it did work,
I just didn't save after view.
Okay, so there you go.
That's an example of passing down just
the data you need into your components so
that it doesn't have to deal with the
cruft of all the other data properties.
And so once again, it'll be a stylistic
part as far as like filling out what makes
the most sense, in terms of,
is that level of complexity even needed?
Because if it's just one or two extra
properties, I'd say, most of the time,
it's not worth creating
an entirely separate property just
to refine the data a little bit.
Granted, if you have a massive card,
right?
That has a ton of stuff in it,
then that's the point where, once again,
whether using things like serverless
functions, for example, those are great
ways to massage the data so that when
they come back from the back-end,
it's smaller in the way that you want.
That's one approach to that, as well.
Because, for example here,
one of the APIs we have to play
with later in the workshop is, if you take
a look at something like this, right?
This is actually a great example
of a really complicated,
let me see, copy paste.
This is the entire thing for
the Pokemon Ditto, and
there's a lot of stuff in here
that you probably don't need.
You probably need one image.
You need, maybe the number it is,
and maybe need to render.
But this is an example of a lot of raw
data that you don't necessarily need.
And so, once again, there are different
approaches to handle this, but
I hope that answers that question.
So thank you for asking that.
Cool, all right, yes?
>> When you do pass properties,
is it sort of passing by a reference, or
is it passing a copy of the object?
Just cuz we're talking about
performance and memory.
>> [LAUGH] Okay, so the question here is
that when you pass in this refined user
data, is it passing in a copy of it or
is it passing a reference to that data?
And the answer is that it's
passing a reference to that data.
And so when it comes to props that
actually does bring up the concept
of mutating props, generally speaking,
not a good practice.
So, what you don't wanna do is come
in here, and then be like, yes,
I'm gonna create a method
that's changeName.
And it'd be, this.user.name = 'Charlie'.
You don't wanna do this.
>> But you could.
>> But you could, but as you can see
though, unexpected mutation of user prop,
it's yelling at you.
Because, once again,
when you start muddling up the chain
of command as far as how data flows,
it starts to get really tricky to
figure out what's happening now, right?
Now, again, this leads into the question
that we had earlier regarding, well,
if that's the case,
are you saying that my child component
can't change the data it's happening?
No, that's not the case, at all.
But before we move on to that topic,
does anyone have any other questions
about the exercise they've worked with
in terms of props, that kinda stuff?
>> If the data changes
outside the components,
since it's passed by reference,
will it rerender the component then?
>> Yeah, it'll know basically what parts
of the to update and all the dependencies.
So that's one of the advantages is that,
basically,
all the reactivity Vue tracks and
takes care of.